### Test productivity

# Description

Here we take data, generated by [generic generator](https://gitlab.com/event-processing-msu/generic-generator), using the local example json file.

The task may be described the following way: find the total spendings of all participators. When this value reaches a predefined limit, stop the simulation.

So, there are four producers for each type of spendings, consumer for calculating the resulting sum and a job description.

With this we are interested in finding out the time, necessary for all the calculations with certain hyperparameters.

Here, the hyper parameters are: number of input kafka brokers, number of input kafka partitions, number of workers.

As a subtask, we need to understand, how kafka works. For that matter, we have docker-compose-kafka.yml. starting containers one by one and checking the kafka ui we may get a better picture.

# Tools description

The used tools are: docker, kafka, spark structured streaming, sh scripting and python.

1) How kafka (KRaft) works (in short, as I understood):

The main task of Kafka is to collect messages, store them effectively and make them easily extractable.

Kafka consists of the following main parts: brokers and bootstrap servers, topics, partitions, producers and consumers.

- topic is a storing instance, where we send messages (message is \<(key), (value), ...\>). They may be split into partitions by kafka (for effectiveness of collection and retrieval). Partitions store messages of a specified topic only with certain "key" field values or by special parameters, so that one message is only in one partition.
- Bootstrap server is a broker, to which we firstly connect to extract all the necessary information about the kafka server (So, it is a broker and a "source" of information about the server).
- Broker controls its partitions of topics.
- Producer is a program which sends messages to partitions.
- Consumer is a program which collects messages from partitions.

So, imagine we have 2 brokers, 1 topic with 2 partitions, and the first broker is also a bootstrap server. If we do everything correctly, Kafka server automatically decides to balance the partitions among the brokers. the first partition is on the first broker and the second is on the second.

2) Spark Structured Streaming:

Here it might not be used to its fullest, but we use 3 join operations and also aggregation by a day number. So, DAG is not the simplest.

The way Spark Structured Streaming is that we collect "micro batches" and do regular DataFrame operations with them.

3) Docker compose:

Docker compose might not also be fully used, as I only use its capabilities to create the containers (not start) and down them.

Things which may be added will be described later.

# Usage

1) sudo sh run_once.sh -- start the simulation with parameters, described in run_once.sh file.

2) sudo sh run.sh -- run the full simulation with grid search. On Mac Air M2 it take about 35 minutes. The resulting "timers" file may be found in so-called volume in Docker Desktop.

3) sudo sh stop.sh -- gracefully stop the simulation and delete the containers.

# Possible changes

0) Check, if everything is correct, because now the result is that is increasing the complexity of 

1) Add more parameters: shuffle partitions for a spark job, number of bootstrap servers and replication factor,

2) Add more producers for more spendings,

3) Improve docker-compose by adding healthchecks,

4) Test the algorithms with Continuous Streaming regime.
